So now if the product item component reorganized its time to be able to let's say delete the items because
that's actually amongst the simple things we can do.
This takes us back to redux and there it's now time to work on the products and I'll start in the actions
which currently is an empty file.
The products just fall in the actions folder where I want to export an action that helps us with deleting
products the identifier they offer is simply named delete product and it holds a delete product.
Text here now all the export action creator delete product which takes the product idea like this and
which then returns an action object where the type is delete product and the pits the product idea is
simply to forward it product ideas like this
now in the reducer in the products reducer file we can listen to that because currently we're never
caring about any action now we can switch on the action type here now handled the case that it's delete
product which we get from our product action file and hence you need to add that import if delete.
Product is the case we need to remove the product from our user products array and of course also from
the available products array because it's deleted in general not just in our user products but from
the entire app
hence here.
I will return a new object where we copy the existing state to be sure we don't lose any state and now
user products is simply state DOT user products.
So the old user products on which we can filter that's a built in JavaScript method which returns a
new array a new array that basically is created by running a function on every item in the old array.
And if that function returns true we keep that item if it returns false we dropped item.
So this executes a function where we gets the product dysfunctions executed for us by javascript.
So to say and it passes in the item it's currently having a look at add to this function.
So we get the product for each product in our user products array and we want to return product idea
unlike action PID which is the product that you want to delete.
What this means is that basically it will keep all products where the ideas do not match.
If they do match we know it's the product we want to get rid of.
And therefore we return false.
Which means in the new array it will not be included.
Now it's essentially the same logic for the away label products.
There would just need to go through all available products and filter out the product there.
This is one change we need to make and never change needs to be made in the card.
However because when we delete a product it should be removed from the card as well because otherwise
we have a product in the card which doesn't exist anymore.
So here I also will add a case for delete product and hence you need to import delete product from actions
products in the card.
J.S. reducer as well
and in here we need to make sure that we remove the product from the card if it was deleted.
So here in the card of course we get our product idea of the product we want to delete it's this pit
in that action which is dispatched so therefore here we return a new state where we want to update our
card and the total amount such that while the product is gone and with gone I mean totally raced from
the card not just reduced by one but totally erased so items is here in the end a copy of the existing
items.
Without that product so I'll create a new constant updated items where I copy my existing state items
here like this.
And then I delete updated items for the action pit so I delete this item from the card.
Of course this only makes sense if this item exists in the card so I will first of all check if state
items for action PID if that returns anything meaningful.
And if it is not the case then it will just return to existing state because then I'm done with this
case I don't need to change anything in the state so I'll just return to existing state without changes
if make it past does a check.
Then I know that the product with the I.D. We're about to delete is part of the item.
So then I continue copying my items then delete the product from their before I do that get the item.
Total by accessing state items 40 action PID and then there of course we have is we have a look at the
card item website card item model I mean we have to as some field here so in the end here I need to
remove to some I'm interested in the sum because now I can update my item astounded with the updated
items where I did delete it with the delete keyword and he total amount of the card is state.
Total amount minus item total so the total office card item we had added before now we update the card
appropriately as well.
When we delete this now we just need to dispatch this deletion.
So back end user products here in delete.
We want to dispatch so from reactor redux we can import use dispatch to get access to the dispatch function
here.
By calling you as dispatch as we did it many times before.
And then here when delete is pressed we can dispatch our action for that of course we need to import
does actions.
Let's do this.
Let's import maybe everything as products actions from the store folder dare from the actions folder
and they are from the products file and now we use products action down there.
When we dispatched this to call delete product and forward the product I.D. which of course is item
data not item dot I.D. Here Because We're Going For all the products here.
And that basically means that item 8 item refers to instances of our product model.
Every instance has a deep property and we're forwarding this to delete product.
So if we give this a try and we go to admin and a click delete on the red shirt indeed it's gone here.
And if I go back to products it's gone here as well.
If we reload this and I do add the red shirt to the cart you see it here I edit it twice.
Now if I go to admin and I delete it and I go back to products into the cart the card is empty now.
On the other hand if I do add let's say the carpet and the coffee Magno go back to admin delete the
carpet but not the coffee mug you see seen products the coffee Mark is still in the cart.
So Dad did work by the way you might notice that coffee Mark is a bit cut off here that's something
I'll fix later to gather with the fact that here we actually see a minus now for the total.
That's also something I'll fix in a second.
First of all let's make sure that we can.
However in the admin section go to the edit screen or that we all do have an item up there that allows
us to add a new product.